# Day 1 Notes


1. Begin with slides: overview + data visualization.


2. Discussions: the primary section for discussion is in the Utility Analytics Applications section. Ask the students where they see themselves (Asset Analytics, Safety Analytics, Customer Analytics, etc.). Some will typically offer anecdotes about projects from their utility that are related to the slides (or perhaps not included).


3. Exercises: 
  - In the virtual setting, I lead an exercise to reinforce data visualization best practices. Several different ways to do this. 
      A) You can use the visualizations.xlsx file (see GitHub) and improve the existing visualizations as a class or as an out-of-class exercise. You can also create new graphs with the data.
      B) Use the PDF visuals provided for class critique. These visuals are from a past participant, and were sent throughout his utility every day. I did ask for and received permission to use the file moving forward. This provoked good class discussion, and I would recommend replacing the exercise in option (A) with this.
      C) Use the storm_cleaned.csv file to create a graphic depicting affected customers by day. A sample script is given. Data was provided by a student who asked for help visualizing the it.
  - In the in-person setting, I ask students to work through the discovery phase of the analytics lifecycle. There are subsequent exercises and discussions through the session. Unfortunately, the virtual setting does not allow time for this exercise. More details on the exercise here: https://pubsonline.informs.org/doi/abs/10.1287/ited.2015.0146ca. 


4. Improvement areas: I recommend making the data visualization section more concise. That section can probably also be combined with the day 2 exploration section, since exploration relies heavily on visualization. 


5. Analytics lifecycle: The text, Data Science and Big Data Analytics: Discovering, Analyzing, Visualizing, and Presenting Data, is an excellent source for information about the data analytics lifecycle. A digital version is available through OU Libraries. You can get similar information by searching online for CRISP-DM. Not exactly the same model, but similar. IBM has good documentation on this framework.

